README.md, before:



## About 📖

The contracts directory contains the following folders:
- `src/`
 1. Contains the `Greeter` contract
 2. Contains the `Chronicle` contract
 3. Contains the `Insurance` contract

- `deployments/` – Contains the deployment artifacts for the `Greeter`, `Chronicle`, `Insurance`, contracts
- `scripts/` – Contains scripts to build, test, and deploy the contracts

The Obd directory contains more information about the Obd project. For more information about how to run the obd project, please refer to the README.md file in the obd directory.


## Getting started 🚀

### 1. Run the frontend

The frontend works out of the box, without a local node running, as the sample contract is pre-deployed on certain live testnets (i.e. `alephzero-testnet` and `shibuya`). Necessary deployment metadata and addresses are provided under `contracts/deployments/`.

> **Pre-requisites:**
>
> - Setup Node.js v18+ (recommended via [nvm](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm) with `nvm install 18`)
> - Install [pnpm](https://pnpm.io/installation) (recommended via [Node.js Corepack](https://nodejs.org/api/corepack.html) or `npm i -g pnpm`)
> - Clone this repository

<details>
<summary><strong>Special Instructions for Windows Users</strong></summary>

> [!IMPORTANT]  
> Windows users must either use [WSL](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/wsl/install) (recommended) or a custom shell like [Git Bash](https://git-scm.com/downloads). PowerShell is not supported.

> **Pre-requisites when using WSL for Linux:**
>
> - Install [WSL](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/wsl/install) and execute _all_ commands in the WSL terminal
> - Setup Node.js v18+ (recommended via [nvm](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm) with `nvm install 18`)
> - Install the following npm packages globally:
> - `npm i -g npm`
> - `npm i -g pnpm node-gyp make`
> - Clone this repository into the WSL file system (e.g. `/home/<user>/inkathon`).
>
> **Tip:** You can enter `\\wsl$\` in the top bar of the Windows Explorer to access the WSL file system visually.

</details>

```bash
# Install dependencies (once)
# NOTE: This automatically creates an `.env.local` file
pnpm install

# Start Next.js frontend
pnpm run dev
```

Optionally, to enable [`simple-git-hooks`](https://github.com/toplenboren/simple-git-hooks) (for automatic linting & formatting when committing), you can run the following command once: `pnpm simple-git-hooks`.

### 2. install the requirements.txt in obd
   Please read the README.md file in the obd directory for more information.

## Customization 🎨

### 1. Project Name

There are multiple places where you need to insert your project's name and identifier. Most of these occurrences are highlighted with a `/* TODO */` comment in the code. You can easily replace them one by one by installing the [`todo-tree`](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=gruntfuggly.todo-tree) plugin.

Additionally, there are the following un-highlighted occurrences:

- the name of the `inkathon.code-workspace` file
- the `package.json`'s name & metadata in the root directory as well as in the `contracts/` and `frontend/` packages
- the workspace dependency (`@inkathon/contracts`) defined in `frontend/package.json` and imported in `frontend/src/deployments/deployments.ts`

### 2. Custom Contracts

To replace the default `Greeter` contract or add a new one, you need to do the following:

- Add a new contract directory under `contracts/src/`
- Add it as another workspace member to the `contracts/Cargo.toml` file
- Add another deployment script or adjust `contracts/scripts/deploy.ts`
- Adjust the `ContractIds` enum and `getDeployments` function in `frontend/src/deployments/deployments.ts`

### 3. Custom Scripts

Adding custom scripts is useful to interact with your contracts or test certain functionality. Therefore, just duplicate & reuse the `contracts/scripts/script.template.ts` file and run it via `pnpm run script <script-name>`. This command will run the TypeScript file directly via [`tsx`](https://github.com/privatenumber/tsx).

For general scripts, the same environment variable initialization & configuration applies as described below in the [Deployment](#deployment) section (e.g. to change the target network).


## Deployment 🚢

Spinning up a deployment via Vercel is pretty straightforward as the necessary settings are already configured in `vercel.json`. If you haven't cloned the repository yet, you can also use the **Deploy** button below to create a new repository from this template.

[![Deploy with Vercel](https://vercel.com/button)](https://vercel.com/new/clone?repository-url=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fvercel%2Fnext.js%2Ftree%2Fcanary%2Fexamples%2Fhello-world&env=NEXT_PUBLIC_DEFAULT_CHAIN&envDescription=Insert%20%60alephzero-testnet%60%20or%20%60shibuya%60&envLink=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fscio-labs%2Finkathon%23environment-variables&project-name=inkathon&repository-name=inkathon&redirect-url=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fscio-labs%2Finkathon&demo-url=https%3A%2F%2Finkathon.xyz)

### Environment Variables

One key element making this boilerplate so flexible is the usage of environment variables to configure the active network in the frontend. This is done by setting the `NEXT_PUBLIC_DEFAULT_CHAIN` variable in the `frontend/.env.local` file, or in the Vercel deployment settings respectively.

<details>
<summary><strong>All Supported Chain Constants</strong></summary>

| Network Identifier  | Name                    | Type    |
| ------------------- | ----------------------- | ------- |
| `development`       | ️Local Development Node | Testnet |
| `alephzero-testnet` | Aleph Zero Testnet      | Testnet |
| `rococo`            | Rococo                  | Testnet |
| `shibuya`           | Shibuya Testnet         | Testnet |
| `shiden`            | Shiden                  | Mainnet |
| `alephzero`         | Aleph Zero              | Mainnet |
| `astar`             | Astar                   | Mainnet |

<small>Source: https://github.com/scio-labs/use-inkathon/blob/main/src/chains.ts</small>

> [!NOTE]  
> Chains can also be supplied manually by creating a [`SubstrateChain`](https://github.com/scio-labs/use-inkathon/blob/main/src/chains.ts#L4) object. If you think a chain is missing, please open an issue or PR.

</details>

All environment variables are imported from `process.env` in [`frontend/src/config/environment.ts`](https://github.com/scio-labs/inkathon/blob/main/frontend/src/config/environment.ts) for type safety.

| Environment Variables           | [Default Values](https://github.com/scio-labs/inkathon/blob/main/frontend/.env.local.example) | Description                                                                                                                                                         |
| ------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_DEFAULT_CHAIN` \*️⃣ | ️`alephzero-testnet`                                                                          | The network (Substrate-based chain) the frontend should connect to by default and what contract deployment artifacts to import.                                     |
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_PRODUCTION_MODE`   | `false`                                                                                       | Optional boolean flag to differentiate production environment (e.g. for SEO or Analytics).                                                                          |
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_URL`               | `http://localhost:3000`                                                                       | Optional string that defines the base URL of the frontend (will be auto-inferred from Vercel environment variables).                                                |
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPPORTED_CHAINS`  | –                                                                                             | Optional array with network identifers (e.g. `["alephzero-testnet", "shibuya"]`) that are supported by the frontend, **if the dApp is supposed to be multi-chain**. |

<small>\*️⃣ Required </small>

### Contract Deployment

In the [Getting Started](#getting-started) section above, we've already deployed the sample `Greeter` contract on a local node. To target a live network, we can use the `CHAIN` environment variable when running the `deploy` script.

```bash
CHAIN=alephzero-testnet pnpm run deploy
```

Further, dynamically loaded environment files with the `.env.{chain}` naming convention can be used to add additional configuration about the deployer account.

```bash
# .env.alephzero-testnet
ACCOUNT_URI=bottom drive obey lake curtain smoke basket hold race lonely fit walk//Alice
```

When running the same script again, this deployer account defined there will be used to sign the extrinsic.

> [!WARNING]  
> These files are gitignored by default, but you should still be extra cautious when adding sensitive information to them.

## VSCode Setup 🛠

### Workspace

It's recommended to develop in VSCode by opening the workspace file `inkathon.code-workspace` instead of just the plain directory. This approach offers multiple advantages, including a more predictable monorepo configuration. VSCode will also automatically suggest switching to the workspace when opening the project's root directory in the bottom right corner.

<img src="inkathon-vscode-workspace.png" width="400" alt="VSCode Workspace Notification">

Commit message:

add mock data and edit readme

README.md, after:



## About 📖

The contracts directory contains the following folders:
- `src/`
 1. Contains the `Greeter` contract
 2. Contains the `Chronicle` contract
 3. Contains the `Insurance` contract

- `deployments/` – Contains the deployment artifacts for the `Greeter`, `Chronicle`, `Insurance`, contracts
- `scripts/` – Contains scripts to build, test, and deploy the contracts

The Obd directory contains more information about the Obd project. For more information about how to run the obd project, please refer to the README.md file in the obd directory.


###
Mock data

We stored some mock data from the car for user's who don't use a linux laptop, The mock data is stored in `response.json`


## Getting started 🚀

### 1. Run the frontend

The frontend works out of the box, without a local node running, as the sample contract is pre-deployed on certain live testnets (i.e. `alephzero-testnet` and `shibuya`). Necessary deployment metadata and addresses are provided under `contracts/deployments/`.

> **Pre-requisites:**
>
> - Setup Node.js v18+ (recommended via [nvm](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm) with `nvm install 18`)
> - Install [pnpm](https://pnpm.io/installation) (recommended via [Node.js Corepack](https://nodejs.org/api/corepack.html) or `npm i -g pnpm`)
> - Clone this repository

<details>
<summary><strong>Special Instructions for Windows Users</strong></summary>

> [!IMPORTANT]  
> Windows users must either use [WSL](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/wsl/install) (recommended) or a custom shell like [Git Bash](https://git-scm.com/downloads). PowerShell is not supported.

> **Pre-requisites when using WSL for Linux:**
>
> - Install [WSL](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/wsl/install) and execute _all_ commands in the WSL terminal
> - Setup Node.js v18+ (recommended via [nvm](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm) with `nvm install 18`)
> - Install the following npm packages globally:
> - `npm i -g npm`
> - `npm i -g pnpm node-gyp make`
> - Clone this repository into the WSL file system (e.g. `/home/<user>/inkathon`).
>
> **Tip:** You can enter `\\wsl$\` in the top bar of the Windows Explorer to access the WSL file system visually.

</details>

```bash
# Install dependencies (once)
# NOTE: This automatically creates an `.env.local` file
pnpm install

# Start Next.js frontend
pnpm run dev
```

Optionally, to enable [`simple-git-hooks`](https://github.com/toplenboren/simple-git-hooks) (for automatic linting & formatting when committing), you can run the following command once: `pnpm simple-git-hooks`.

### 2. install the requirements.txt in obd
   Please read the README.md file in the obd directory for more information.

## Customization 🎨

### 1. Project Name

There are multiple places where you need to insert your project's name and identifier. Most of these occurrences are highlighted with a `/* TODO */` comment in the code. You can easily replace them one by one by installing the [`todo-tree`](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=gruntfuggly.todo-tree) plugin.

Additionally, there are the following un-highlighted occurrences:

- the name of the `inkathon.code-workspace` file
- the `package.json`'s name & metadata in the root directory as well as in the `contracts/` and `frontend/` packages
- the workspace dependency (`@inkathon/contracts`) defined in `frontend/package.json` and imported in `frontend/src/deployments/deployments.ts`

### 2. Custom Contracts

To replace the default `Greeter` contract or add a new one, you need to do the following:

- Add a new contract directory under `contracts/src/`
- Add it as another workspace member to the `contracts/Cargo.toml` file
- Add another deployment script or adjust `contracts/scripts/deploy.ts`
- Adjust the `ContractIds` enum and `getDeployments` function in `frontend/src/deployments/deployments.ts`

### 3. Custom Scripts

Adding custom scripts is useful to interact with your contracts or test certain functionality. Therefore, just duplicate & reuse the `contracts/scripts/script.template.ts` file and run it via `pnpm run script <script-name>`. This command will run the TypeScript file directly via [`tsx`](https://github.com/privatenumber/tsx).

For general scripts, the same environment variable initialization & configuration applies as described below in the [Deployment](#deployment) section (e.g. to change the target network).


## Deployment 🚢

Spinning up a deployment via Vercel is pretty straightforward as the necessary settings are already configured in `vercel.json`. If you haven't cloned the repository yet, you can also use the **Deploy** button below to create a new repository from this template.

[![Deploy with Vercel](https://vercel.com/button)](https://vercel.com/new/clone?repository-url=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fvercel%2Fnext.js%2Ftree%2Fcanary%2Fexamples%2Fhello-world&env=NEXT_PUBLIC_DEFAULT_CHAIN&envDescription=Insert%20%60alephzero-testnet%60%20or%20%60shibuya%60&envLink=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fscio-labs%2Finkathon%23environment-variables&project-name=inkathon&repository-name=inkathon&redirect-url=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fscio-labs%2Finkathon&demo-url=https%3A%2F%2Finkathon.xyz)

### Environment Variables

One key element making this boilerplate so flexible is the usage of environment variables to configure the active network in the frontend. This is done by setting the `NEXT_PUBLIC_DEFAULT_CHAIN` variable in the `frontend/.env.local` file, or in the Vercel deployment settings respectively.

<details>
<summary><strong>All Supported Chain Constants</strong></summary>

| Network Identifier  | Name                    | Type    |
| ------------------- | ----------------------- | ------- |
| `development`       | ️Local Development Node | Testnet |
| `alephzero-testnet` | Aleph Zero Testnet      | Testnet |
| `rococo`            | Rococo                  | Testnet |
| `shibuya`           | Shibuya Testnet         | Testnet |
| `shiden`            | Shiden                  | Mainnet |
| `alephzero`         | Aleph Zero              | Mainnet |
| `astar`             | Astar                   | Mainnet |

<small>Source: https://github.com/scio-labs/use-inkathon/blob/main/src/chains.ts</small>

> [!NOTE]  
> Chains can also be supplied manually by creating a [`SubstrateChain`](https://github.com/scio-labs/use-inkathon/blob/main/src/chains.ts#L4) object. If you think a chain is missing, please open an issue or PR.

</details>

All environment variables are imported from `process.env` in [`frontend/src/config/environment.ts`](https://github.com/scio-labs/inkathon/blob/main/frontend/src/config/environment.ts) for type safety.

| Environment Variables           | [Default Values](https://github.com/scio-labs/inkathon/blob/main/frontend/.env.local.example) | Description                                                                                                                                                         |
| ------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_DEFAULT_CHAIN` \*️⃣ | ️`alephzero-testnet`                                                                          | The network (Substrate-based chain) the frontend should connect to by default and what contract deployment artifacts to import.                                     |
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_PRODUCTION_MODE`   | `false`                                                                                       | Optional boolean flag to differentiate production environment (e.g. for SEO or Analytics).                                                                          |
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_URL`               | `http://localhost:3000`                                                                       | Optional string that defines the base URL of the frontend (will be auto-inferred from Vercel environment variables).                                                |
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPPORTED_CHAINS`  | –                                                                                             | Optional array with network identifers (e.g. `["alephzero-testnet", "shibuya"]`) that are supported by the frontend, **if the dApp is supposed to be multi-chain**. |

<small>\*️⃣ Required </small>

### Contract Deployment

In the [Getting Started](#getting-started) section above, we've already deployed the sample `Greeter` contract on a local node. To target a live network, we can use the `CHAIN` environment variable when running the `deploy` script.

```bash
CHAIN=alephzero-testnet pnpm run deploy
```

Further, dynamically loaded environment files with the `.env.{chain}` naming convention can be used to add additional configuration about the deployer account.

```bash
# .env.alephzero-testnet
ACCOUNT_URI=bottom drive obey lake curtain smoke basket hold race lonely fit walk//Alice
```

When running the same script again, this deployer account defined there will be used to sign the extrinsic.

> [!WARNING]  
> These files are gitignored by default, but you should still be extra cautious when adding sensitive information to them.
